---
title: '2. Send events'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Lab 6: Send events between microservices'
---

# Use an existing microservice to send events to the Event Hub

You will now implement the functionality that will allow you to emulate sending events from a third party system to the telemetry Event Hub. You can find this third party system in the [azure-event-hubs-for-kafka on GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-event-hubs-for-kafka) and use the `quickstart/java/producer`.

Edit the `producer.config` file in the `src/main/resources` folder:
- Change the `bootstrap.servers` config setting so it contains the name of the Event Hub namespace you provisioned earlier in this lab.
- Change the `sasl.jaas.config` config setting so it contains the connection string to the `telemetry` event hub.

Update the `TestProducer.java` file in the `producer/src/main/java` directory, so it uses `telemetry` as a topic name.

Compile the producer app. You will use it at the end of this lab to send 100 events to your event hub. You will be able to re-run this multiple times to send events to the event hub.

## Step by step guidance

1. From the Git Bash shell in the `projects` folder, clone the [azure-event-hubs-for-kafka on GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-event-hubs-for-kafka) project.

   ```bash
   cd ~/projects
   git clone https://github.com/Azure/azure-event-hubs-for-kafka
   ```

   {: .note }
   > In case you are running this lab in a GitHub codespace, you can use the same **Create a codespace** option as you did for the lab project. Fork the [azure-event-hubs-for-kafka](https://github.com/Azure/azure-event-hubs-for-kafka) repository, and in your fork go to **Code** and next **Codespaces**. Next select **Create a codespace**. Your codespace of the config repository will now get created in your browser window.

1. In your projects folder, use your favorite text editor to open the **azure-event-hubs-for-kafka/quickstart/java/producer/src/main/resources/producer.config** file. Change line 1 by replacing the `mynamespace` placeholder with the name of the Event Hub namespace you provisioned earlier in this lab.

   ```yaml
   bootstrap.servers=mynamespace.servicebus.windows.net:9093
   ```

1. Change line 4 by replacing the password value with the value of the connection string to the `telemetry` event hub. This value should match the content of the `$EVENTHUB_CONNECTIONSTRING` environment variable.

   ```yaml
   sasl.jaas.config=org.apache.kafka.common.security.plain.PlainLoginModule required username="$ConnectionString" password="Endpoint=sb://mynamespace.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=XXXXXX;SharedAccessKey=XXXXXX;EntityPath=telemetry";
   ```

1. Save the changes to the file.

1. Open the `TestProducer.java` file in the `azure-event-hubs-for-kafka/quickstart/java/producer/src/main/java` directory. In line 16, set the topic name to `telemetry`.

   ```java
       private final static String TOPIC = "telemetry";
   ```

1. From the Git Bash window, set the current working directory to the `azure-event-hubs-for-kafka/quickstart/java/producer` folder and run a maven build.

   ```bash
   cd ~/projects/azure-event-hubs-for-kafka/quickstart/java/producer
   mvn clean package
   ```
