---
title: '4. Inspect data'
layout: default
nav_order: 4
parent: 'Lab 6: Send events between microservices'
---

# Inspect telemetry data being received

To conclude this lab, you will retest the sending of events from the customers service to your event hub and use output logs of the vets microservice to verify that these events are being received.

## Step by step guidance

1. Once the vets service is properly running without errors, you can start testing out sending some test events. To verify that these events nake it to the vets service, you will inspect its log messages.

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods
   
   kubectl logs <vets-service-pod> -f
   ```

1. Navigate in the running petclinic application to Owners - Register. In the new owner screen fill out the form and select **Submit**.

1. In the vets service log output, double check that you see messages indicating that events are being received from the event hub.

   {: .note }
   > In case you see errors in the logs of the vets service, or in case you don't see any messages pop up related to the events, double check the error message whether it provides info on why it's not working as expected. You may also want to double check the logs from the customers service and the config server. Double check all steps from the previous 2 labs and redeploy the customers and vets services. To redeploy a service: rebuild the jar file and copy it to the staging-acr directory, rebuild the container image and stop the previously running pod of the service. Additionaly you may also delete the previous version of the config-server, before deleting the specific service pod, so you are sure you are running with latest config. Also make sure the config-server starts running properly again as well.
