---
title: '3. MySQL database'
layout: default
nav_order: 3
parent: 'Lab 2: Migrate to Azure Kubernetes Service'
---

# Create an Azure MySQL Database service

You now have the compute service that will host your applications and the config server that will be used by your migrated application. Before you start deploying individual microservices as Azure Spring Apps applications, you need to first create an Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server-hosted database for them. To accomplish this, you can use the following guidance:

- [Quickstart: Create an Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server using Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/mysql/flexible-server/quickstart-create-server-cli).

You will also need to update the config for your applications to use the newly provisioned MySQL Server to authorize access to your private GitHub repository. This will involve updating the application.yml config file in your private git config repo with the values provided in the MySQL Server connection string.

Your MySQL database will also have a firewall enabled. This firewall will by default block all incoming calls. You will need to open this firewall in case you want to connect to it from your microservices running in the AKS cluster.

## Step by step guidance

1. Run the following commands to create an instance of MySQL Flexible server. Note that the name of the server must be globally unique, so adjust it accordingly in case the randomly generated name is already in use. Keep in mind that the name can contain only lowercase letters, numbers and hyphens. In addition, replace the `<myadmin-password>` placeholder with a complex password and record its value.

   ```bash
   MYSQL_SERVER_NAME=mysql-$APPNAME-$UNIQUEID
   MYSQL_ADMIN_USERNAME=myadmin
   MYSQL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<myadmin-password>
   DATABASE_NAME=petclinic
      
   az mysql flexible-server create \
       --admin-user myadmin \
       --admin-password ${MYSQL_ADMIN_PASSWORD} \
       --name ${MYSQL_SERVER_NAME} \
       --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} 
   ```

   {: .note }
   > During the creation you will be asked whether access for your IP address should be added and whether access for all IP's should be added. Answer `n` for no on both questions.
   
   {: .note }
   > Wait for the provisioning to complete. This might take about 3 minutes.

1. Once the Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instance gets created, it will output details about its settings. In the output, you will find the server connection string. Record its value since you will need it later in this exercise.

1. Run the following commands to create a database in the Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instance.

   ```bash
    az mysql flexible-server db create \
        --server-name $MYSQL_SERVER_NAME \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        -d $DATABASE_NAME
   ```

1. You will also need to allow connections to the server from your AKS cluster. For now, to accomplish this, you will create a server firewall rule to allow inbound traffic from all Azure Services. This way your apps running in Azure Kubernetes Service will be able to reach the MySQL database providing them with persistent storage. In one of the upcoming exercises, you will restrict this connectivity to limit it exclusively to the apps hosted by your AKS instance.

   ```bash
    az mysql flexible-server firewall-rule create \
        --rule-name allAzureIPs \
        --name ${MYSQL_SERVER_NAME} \
        --resource-group ${RESOURCE_GROUP} \
        --start-ip-address 0.0.0.0 --end-ip-address 0.0.0.0
   ```

1. From the Git Bash window, in the config repository you cloned locally, use your favorite text editor to open the application.yml file. To make things easier, you will use the default profile to connect to the MySQL database. For this, copy lines `80 to 88`:

   ```yml
    datasource:
      url: jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/petclinic?useSSL=false
      username: root
      password: petclinic
    sql:
      init:
        schema-locations: classpath*:db/mysql/schema.sql
        data-locations: classpath*:db/mysql/data.sql
        init: ALWAYS
   ```

1. Paste these copied lines now on lines `11 to 14`, so they replace the existing `sql` block. Be mindful of indentation when you do so.

   ```yml
    sql:
      init:
        schema-locations: classpath*:db/hsqldb/schema.sql
        data-locations: classpath*:db/hsqldb/data.sql
   ```

1. In the part you pasted, update the values of the target datasource endpoint, the corresponding admin user account, and its password. Set these values by using the information in the Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server connection string you recorded earlier in this task. Your configuration should look like this:

   {: .note }
   > The updated content of these three lines in the application.yml file should have the following format (where the `<mysql-server-name>`, `<myadmin-password>` and `<mysql-database-name>` placeholders represent the name of the Azure Database for MySQL Flexible Server instance, the password you assigned to the myadmin account during its provisioning, and the name of the database i.e. `petclinic`, respectively):

   ```yaml
       url: jdbc:mysql://<mysql-server-name>.mysql.database.azure.com:3306/<mysql-database-name>?useSSL=true
       username: myadmin
       password: <myadmin-password>
   ```

   {: .note }
   > Ensure to change the value of the `useSSL` parameter to `true`, since this is enforced by default by Azure Database for MySQL Single Server.

1. Now that you are updating the `application.yml` file anyways, also comment out line 5 in the file with the port number. This is needed later in the challenge, where all microservices will use specific ports.

   ```yml
     # port: 0
   ```

1. Now that you are updating the `application.yml` file anyways, also add the following block right above the `Chaos Engineering comment` on line 62 and save the file.
  
   ```yml
   eureka:
     client:
       serviceUrl:
         defaultZone: http://discovery-server:8761/eureka/
     instance:
       preferIpAddress: true
   ```

   {: .note }
   > Your application.yml file should now look like [this application.yml](0203.application.yml) file.

1. In the config repo you cloned locally, comment out the full admin-server.yml file. When deploying this service to the AKS cluster, it will run on a different port. The other config is not needed either, so can be commented out. Save the file.
  
   ```yml
   #server:
   #  port: 9090
   #
   #---
   #spring:
   #  config:
   #    activate:
   #      on-profile: docker
   #eureka:
   #  client:
   #    serviceUrl:
   #      defaultZone: http://discovery-server:8761/eureka/
   ```
  
1. Save the changes and push the updates you made to the **application.yml** file to your private GitHub repo by running the following commands from the Git Bash prompt:

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m 'azure mysql info'
   git push
   ```

   {: .note }
   > At this point, the admin account user name and password are stored in clear text in the application.yml config file. In one of upcoming exercises, you will remediate this potential vulnerability by removing clear text credentials from your configuration.

