---
title: '2. Send messages'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Lab 5: Send messages between microservices'
---

# Try out an existing microservice

In the java-microservices-aks-lab repository's src directory, the `spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator` microservice is already prepared to send messages to an Azure Service Bus namespace. You can add this microservice to your current Spring Petclinic project in the parent `pom.xml` file, deploy it as an extra microservice in your AKS cluster and use this microservice's public endpoint to send messages to your Service Bus namespace. Test this functionality and inspect whether messages end up in the Service Bus namespace you just created by using the Service Bus Explorer for the `visits-requests` queue. You can use the following guidance to implement these changes:

- [Use Service Bus Explorer to run data operations on Service Bus (Preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-bus-messaging/explorer).

## Step by step guidance

1. From the Git Bash window, in the `java-microservices-aks-lab` repository you cloned locally, navigate to the `src` directory and use your favorite text editor to open the `pom.xml` file in the root directory of the cloned repo. you'll have to uncomment the module for the `spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator` in the `<modules>` element at line 26.

    ```xml
    <module>spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator</module>
    ```

1. Run a build of the messaging emulator.

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspaces/java-microservices-aks-lab/src
   mvn clean package -DskipTests -rf :spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator
   ```

1. Copy the newly compiled jar file for the messaging-emulator to the _staging-acr_ directory and build the container image for it.

   ```bash
   cd staging-acr
   
   cp ../spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator/target/spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator-$VERSION.jar spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator-$VERSION.jar
   
   docker build -t $MYACR.azurecr.io/spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator:$VERSION \
       --build-arg ARTIFACT_NAME=spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator-$VERSION.jar \
       --build-arg APP_PORT=8080 \
       --build-arg AI_JAR=ai.jar \
       .
   
   docker push $MYACR.azurecr.io/spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator:$VERSION
   ```

1. You will also need to add a mapping for the _SPRING-JMS-SERVICEBUS-CONNECTION-STRING_ secret in Key Vault in the _SecretProviderClass_. You can update the SecretProviderClass with the following bash statement.

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -n spring-petclinic -f -
   apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1
   kind: SecretProviderClass
   metadata:
     name: azure-kvname-user-msi
   spec:
     provider: azure
     secretObjects:
     - secretName: gitpatsecret
       type: Opaque
       data: 
       - objectName: gitpat
         key: gitpat
     - secretName: sbsecret
       type: Opaque
       data: 
       - objectName: sbconn
         key: sbconn
     parameters:
       usePodIdentity: "false"
       useVMManagedIdentity: "false" 
       clientID: $USER_ASSIGNED_CLIENT_ID 
       keyvaultName: $KEYVAULT_NAME
       cloudName: "" 
       objects: |
         array:
           - |
             objectName: SPRING-JMS-SERVICEBUS-CONNECTIONSTRING
             objectType: secret   
             objectAlias: sbconn       
             objectVersion: ""  
           - |
             objectName: GIT-PAT
             objectType: secret   
             objectAlias: gitpat          
             objectVersion: ""  
       tenantId: $ADTENANT
   EOF
   ```

1. In the _kubernetes_ directory, create a new file _spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator.yml_, and copy the contents of the [spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator.yml](spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator.yml) file to it. This file will contain all the changes and environment variables you have also defined in the other microservices. It also contains 1 extra environment variable for the _SPRING_JMS_SERVICEBUS_CONNECTIONSTRING_.

1. In the _spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator.yml_ file, replace the _<your-acr-name>_ on line 27 with the name of your Azure Container Registry and save the file.

1. Apply the `spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator.yml` yaml file on your cluster.

   ```bash
   cd ../kubernetes
   kubectl apply -f spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator.yml
   ```

   You can run _kubectl get pods -n spring-petclinic -w_ in another bash window to see the microservices spin up.

1. Double check the secrets, you should see an additional secret for _sbsecret_.

   ```bash
   kubectl get secrets
   ```

1. The messaging-emulator is configured with a load balancer as a service. Once everything is up and running you inspect the services in the cluster and copy the public IP of the messaging-emulator service.

   ```bash
   kubectl get services
   ```

1. Use your browser to go to this IP on port 8080. This will open up the messaging emulator page.

1. On the newly open browser page titled **Message**, enter **1** in the **Pet** text box and a random text in the **Message** text box, and then select **Submit**.

1. In the Azure Portal, navigate to your resource group and select the Service Bus namespace you deployed in the previous task.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Entities** section, select **Queues** and then select the `visits-requests` queue entry.

1. On the **Overview** page of the `visits-requests` queue, verify that the active message count is set to 1.

1. Select **Service Bus Explorer** and select **Peek from start**. This operation allows you to peek at the top messages on the queue, without dequeuing them.

1. Select the message entry in the queue and review the **Message Body** section to confirm that its content matches the message you submitted.

You might want to inspect the code of the `messaging-emulator` microservice. Take a look at:

- The dependencies for the Service Bus in the `pom.xml` file.
- The `PetClinicVisitRequestSender` and `PetClinicMessageResponsesReceiver` classes in the `service` folder. These are the classes that enable sending and receiving of messages to and from a queue using JMS.
- The `PetClinicMessageRequest` and `PetClinicMessageResponse` classes in the `entity` folder. These are the messages being sent back and forth.
- The `MessagingConfig` class in the `config` folder. This class provides conversion to and from JSON.
- The `AzureServiceBusResource` class in the `web` folder. This class makes use of the above classed to send a message to the Service Bus.

In the next steps you will add similar functionality to the `visits` service.
